docs/ORDER_FLOW.md, before:

# Order Flow – Hourly-only MVP (EncuentraYa)

This document defines the **end-to-end order lifecycle** for the hourly-only MVP.
It is the canonical reference for **backend state machine, payments, and client/pro actions**.

---

## Scope

- Pricing model: **hourly only**
- Hourly rate is **set by the professional**
- Client selects a professional explicitly
- Payment is **authorized (pre-auth) and later captured**
- Includes **Arrived** tracking
- One core entity: **Order**

---

## High-level flow

1. Client searches categories/subcategories
2. Client selects a professional and creates an order request
3. Professional accepts or declines
4. Client authorizes payment (hourly cap)
5. Order is confirmed
6. Professional executes the job (on-my-way → arrived → work)
7. Professional submits final hours
8. Client accepts or disputes hours
9. Payment is captured
10. Professional is paid out

---

## Detailed flow

### 1) Order creation (client)

Client provides:

- Category / subcategory
- Selected professional
- Address
- Preferred time window
- Description + optional photos

**Order status:** `pending_pro_confirmation`

At this point:

- No payment is authorized
- No calendar is locked
- Pro has not committed yet

---

### 2) Professional decision

Professional can:

- ✅ Accept
- ❌ Decline
- 💬 Ask clarifying questions (via chat)

If declined:

- Order remains open
- Client can select another recommended professional

If accepted:

- Professional commits to the job (soft commitment)

**Order status:** `accepted`

---

### 3) Estimated hours & payment authorization (client)

Client:

- Selects `estimated_hours` (e.g. 1–8 hours)
- Reviews:
  - Hourly rate
  - Cancellation rules
  - Authorization cap

Platform authorizes payment:

```
authorized_amount = hourly_rate * estimated_hours
```

> Money is **authorized, not captured**.

**Order status:** `confirmed`

This is the **hard commitment boundary**:

- Time is locked
- Cancellation rules apply
- Professional knows the job is real

---

### 4) Job execution (professional)

Professional progress updates:

- Marks **“On my way”**
- Marks **“Arrived”**
- Performs the work

**Order status:** `in_progress`

These steps are important for:

- No-show disputes
- Cancellation enforcement
- Trust signals

---

### 5) Job completion & hour submission

Professional:

- Marks **“Completed”**
- Submits `final_hours`

**Order status:** `awaiting_client_approval`

---

### 6) Client approval or dispute

Client can:

- ✅ Accept submitted hours
- ⚠️ Dispute hours (with reason)

Rules:

- If client does not respond within a timeout (e.g. 24h), hours are **auto-approved**

If accepted:

- Payment is captured
- Platform fee is applied
- Payout is scheduled

If disputed:

- Order enters dispute flow
- Capture is paused until resolution

---

### 7) Payment capture & payout

On acceptance:

```
captured_amount = final_hours * hourly_rate
```

Then:

- Platform fee deducted
- Remaining amount paid to professional

**Order status:** `completed` → `paid`

---

## Cancellation rules (MVP)

- Client cancels **before pro accepts**:
  - No charge
- Client cancels **after confirmation**:
  - Charge up to 1 hour (from authorized amount)
- Professional cancels after confirmation:
  - Client not charged
  - Professional reliability score impacted

---

## Order State Machine

### States

- `draft`
- `pending_pro_confirmation`
- `accepted`
- `confirmed`
- `in_progress`
- `awaiting_client_approval`
- `completed`
- `paid`
- `canceled`
- `disputed`

---

### Transition list

- `draft` → `pending_pro_confirmation`
- `pending_pro_confirmation` → `accepted` | `canceled`
- `accepted` → `confirmed` | `canceled`
- `confirmed` → `in_progress` | `canceled`
- `in_progress` → `awaiting_client_approval`
- `awaiting_client_approval` → `completed` | `disputed`
- `completed` → `paid`
- `disputed` → `completed` | `canceled`

---

## Mermaid state diagram

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
  [*] --> draft
  draft --> pending_pro_confirmation : client_creates_order

  pending_pro_confirmation --> accepted : pro_accepts
  pending_pro_confirmation --> canceled : client_cancels

  accepted --> confirmed : client_authorizes_payment
  accepted --> canceled : client_or_pro_cancels

  confirmed --> in_progress : pro_starts
  confirmed --> canceled : client_or_pro_cancels_after_confirm

  state in_progress {
    [*] --> on_my_way
    on_my_way --> arrived : pro_marks_arrived
    arrived --> working : work_in_progress
    working --> [*]
  }

  in_progress --> awaiting_client_approval : pro_marks_completed + submits_hours

  awaiting_client_approval --> completed : client_accepts OR auto_accept_timeout
  awaiting_client_approval --> disputed : client_disputes

  disputed --> completed : dispute_resolved
  disputed --> canceled : dispute_canceled

  completed --> paid : capture_payment + payout

  paid --> [*]
  canceled --> [*]
```

---

## Key invariants

- Payment authorization happens **only after professional acceptance**
- Capture happens **only after client approval (or auto-approval)**
- Hourly rate is **snapshotted** at acceptance time (to avoid retroactive changes)
- One Order owns:
  - lifecycle
  - payment
  - messages
  - reviews

---

## Non-goals (MVP)

- No bidding
- No fixed-price quotes
- No multi-pro competition per order
- No calendar slot booking independent of orders

Commit message:

feat: add photo support, chat

docs/ORDER_FLOW.md, after:

# Order Flow – Hourly-only MVP (EncuentraYa)

This document defines the **end-to-end order lifecycle** for the hourly-only MVP.
It is the canonical reference for **backend state machine, payments, and client/pro actions**.

---

## Scope

- Pricing model: **hourly only**
- Hourly rate is **set by the professional**
- Client selects a professional explicitly
- Payment is **authorized (pre-auth) and later captured**
- Includes **Arrived** tracking
- One core entity: **Order**

---

## High-level flow

1. Client searches categories/subcategories
2. Client selects a professional and creates an order request
3. Professional accepts or declines
4. Client authorizes payment (hourly cap)
5. Order is confirmed
6. Professional executes the job (on-my-way → arrived → work)
7. Professional submits final hours
8. Client accepts or disputes hours
9. Payment is captured
10. Professional is paid out

---

## Detailed flow

### 1) Order creation (client)

The client goes through a **create-order wizard**:

1. **Service details** – Category/subcategory, selected professional, description
2. **Location & duration** – Address, preferred time window, estimated hours
3. **Add photos** (optional) – Client can attach up to 10 photos (e.g. of the space or problem). Images are compressed client-side, then uploaded to storage via presigned URLs. URLs are stored with the order as `photoUrls`.
4. **Review & confirm** – Summary and cost estimate; client submits the order.

Client provides:

- Category / subcategory
- Selected professional
- Address
- Preferred time window
- Description
- **Optional photos** (order photos, shown to the pro in job details)

**Order status:** `pending_pro_confirmation`

At this point:

- No payment is authorized
- No calendar is locked
- Pro has not committed yet

---

### 2) Professional decision

Professional can:

- ✅ Accept
- ❌ Decline
- 💬 Ask clarifying questions (via chat)

If declined:

- Order remains open
- Client can select another recommended professional

If accepted:

- Professional commits to the job (soft commitment)

**Order status:** `accepted`

---

### 3) Estimated hours & payment authorization (client)

Client:

- Selects `estimated_hours` (e.g. 1–8 hours)
- Reviews:
  - Hourly rate
  - Cancellation rules
  - Authorization cap

Platform authorizes payment:

```
authorized_amount = hourly_rate * estimated_hours
```

> Money is **authorized, not captured**.

**Order status:** `confirmed`

This is the **hard commitment boundary**:

- Time is locked
- Cancellation rules apply
- Professional knows the job is real

---

### 4) Job execution (professional)

Professional progress updates:

- Marks **“On my way”**
- Marks **“Arrived”**
- Performs the work

**Order status:** `in_progress`

These steps are important for:

- No-show disputes
- Cancellation enforcement
- Trust signals

---

### 5) Job completion & hour submission

Professional:

- Marks **“Completed”**
- Optionally attaches **work proof photos** (e.g. before/after; from camera or gallery). Up to 10 photos; compressed on device, uploaded via presigned URLs, stored as `workProofPhotoUrls`.
- Submits `final_hours` (hourly) or completes without hours (fixed-price).

**Order status:** `awaiting_client_approval`

---

### 6) Client approval or dispute

Client can:

- ✅ Accept submitted hours
- ⚠️ Dispute hours (with reason)

Rules:

- If client does not respond within a timeout (e.g. 24h), hours are **auto-approved**

If accepted:

- Payment is captured
- Platform fee is applied
- Payout is scheduled

If disputed:

- Order enters dispute flow
- Capture is paused until resolution

---

### 7) Payment capture & payout

On acceptance:

```
captured_amount = final_hours * hourly_rate
```

Then:

- Platform fee deducted
- Remaining amount paid to professional

**Order status:** `completed` → `paid`

---

## Cancellation rules (MVP)

- Client cancels **before pro accepts**:
  - No charge
- Client cancels **after confirmation**:
  - Charge up to 1 hour (from authorized amount)
- Professional cancels after confirmation:
  - Client not charged
  - Professional reliability score impacted

---

## Order State Machine

### States

- `draft`
- `pending_pro_confirmation`
- `accepted`
- `confirmed`
- `in_progress`
- `awaiting_client_approval`
- `completed`
- `paid`
- `canceled`
- `disputed`

---

### Transition list

- `draft` → `pending_pro_confirmation`
- `pending_pro_confirmation` → `accepted` | `canceled`
- `accepted` → `confirmed` | `canceled`
- `confirmed` → `in_progress` | `canceled`
- `in_progress` → `awaiting_client_approval`
- `awaiting_client_approval` → `completed` | `disputed`
- `completed` → `paid`
- `disputed` → `completed` | `canceled`

---

## Mermaid state diagram

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
  [*] --> draft
  draft --> pending_pro_confirmation : client_creates_order

  pending_pro_confirmation --> accepted : pro_accepts
  pending_pro_confirmation --> canceled : client_cancels

  accepted --> confirmed : client_authorizes_payment
  accepted --> canceled : client_or_pro_cancels

  confirmed --> in_progress : pro_starts
  confirmed --> canceled : client_or_pro_cancels_after_confirm

  state in_progress {
    [*] --> on_my_way
    on_my_way --> arrived : pro_marks_arrived
    arrived --> working : work_in_progress
    working --> [*]
  }

  in_progress --> awaiting_client_approval : pro_marks_completed + submits_hours

  awaiting_client_approval --> completed : client_accepts OR auto_accept_timeout
  awaiting_client_approval --> disputed : client_disputes

  disputed --> completed : dispute_resolved
  disputed --> canceled : dispute_canceled

  completed --> paid : capture_payment + payout

  paid --> [*]
  canceled --> [*]
```

---

## Key invariants

- Payment authorization happens **only after professional acceptance**
- Capture happens **only after client approval (or auto-approval)**
- Hourly rate is **snapshotted** at acceptance time (to avoid retroactive changes)
- One Order owns:
  - lifecycle
  - payment
  - messages
  - reviews

---

## Non-goals (MVP)

- No bidding
- No multi-pro competition per order
- No calendar slot booking independent of orders

---

## Extension: Fixed-price (quote) flow

The platform now supports **fixed-price (quote)** categories alongside hourly. The **same order statuses** are used; only the steps and data within certain statuses differ (e.g. quote sub-flow inside `accepted`, completion without hours). For a product-level explanation of hourly vs fixed and how they relate to this order flow, see **[Pricing and Order Strategy](./PRICING_AND_ORDER_STRATEGY.md)**.
